Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
   and Electronic Health System

   Points to Note for Healthcare Providers
            and Healthcare Professionals

                                                                                                                       *****
       Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance
          and Electronic Health System

Points to Note for Healthcare Providers and Healthcare Professionals

The Electronic Health System Ordinance, Cap. 625 ("eHealth Ordinance") provides a legal
basis for the collection, sharing, use, and safekeeping of patients' health data under the
Electronic Health System ("eHealth System"). The eHealth System is an information
infrastructure for healthcare providers (including doctors and other healthcare professionals)
in both the public and private sectors to, with the consent of a patient, access and share the
patient's health record for healthcare-related purposes.

Healthcare providers may visit the website of the eHealth System (www.ehealth.gov.hk) for
more details.

The Relationship between the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance and
the eHealth System

Patients' health records in the eHealth System amount to personal data, which is protected
under the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance, Cap. 486 ("PDPO"). Healthcare providers and
the Commissioner for the Electronic Health Record, as data users, should act in accordance
with the requirements under the eHealth Ordinance as well as the PDPO (including the Six Data
Protection Principles) when handling patients' health records in the eHealth System.

The functions and powers of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data ("Privacy Commissioner")
under the PDPO in relation to personal data in the eHealth System include the following:

   handling complaints1 of suspected breaches of the PDPO and initiating compliance checks
   or investigations if necessary;
   carrying out inspection of the eHealth System in respect of its handling of personal data;
   providing guidance on personal data privacy in relation to the eHealth System to healthcare
   providers and citizens; and
   handling any data breach notification in relation to the eHealth System.

The Commissioner for the Electronic Health Record has stated in the Code of Practice and
Conditions of Registration for Healthcare Providers the requirements on protection of personal
data in detail. Before registering with the eHealth System, healthcare providers should read the
relevant provisions carefully. When exercising the functions and powers under the PDPO, the
Privacy Commissioner will also take into account the Code of Practice issued by
the Commissioner for the Electronic Health Record, in addition to the provisions
of the eHealth Ordinance.

1 Please refer to the Complaint Handling Policy issued by the PCPD
  (https://www.pcpd.org.hk/english/complaints/policy/complaint_policy.html).
Points to Note for Healthcare Providers and Healthcare Professionals 

1. Patients' participation and the giving of sharing consent

    1.1. Health records are sensitive personal data. Healthcare providers should patiently
           explain the use of the eHealth System to patients in detail to ensure that patients
           understand the benefits of sharing their health records.

    1.2. Healthcare providers should ensure that their sta will remind patients, before giving
           joining consent2 and/or sharing consent3, to read carefully the "Personal Information
           Collection Statement", "Privacy Policy Statement", and "Participant Information
           Notice" issued by the Commissioner for the Electronic Health Record4.

    1.3. Participation in the eHealth System is voluntary. A patient may withdraw from the
           eHealth System and/or revoke his/her sharing consent given to any healthcare
           provider 5 at any time. When patients express the above intention, healthcare
           providers should explain to them in detail the impact of such decisions on the
           healthcare service they receive.

2. Access to electronic health record ("eHR") on necessity basis

    2.1. Healthcare providers must take reasonable steps to ensure that healthcare
           professionals may only have access to health records relevant to the healthcare
           service they provide under the "patient-under-care" and "need-to-know" principles.
           For example:

                Set adequate but not excessive access rights to the data in the eHealth System in
                accordance with the functions and clinical needs of various healthcare
                professionals;

                Incorporate the requirement of keeping patients' information confidential in sta
                manuals or codes of practice;

                Review sta 's access right to the data in the eHealth System regularly, and cancel
                that of departing sta as soon as possible.

    2.2. Healthcare professionals must, even if already authorised by healthcare providers to
           access eHRs, exercise professional judgment to determine what exact data is
           necessary to be accessed for reference as actually needed in the provision of
           healthcare services.

    2.3. Healthcare providers and healthcare professionals should properly handle patients'
           health records in the eHealth System and should not use the patients' personal data
           for new purposes (i.e. purposes other than those stated at the time of collection of
           personal data), for example, for uploading patients' health records to social media
           without their explicit and voluntary consent.

3. Data accuracy

    Healthcare providers should ensure that the eHRs they provide to the eHealth System are
    accurate.

2 A patient shall give joining consent to register with the eHealth System. Once the joining consent is given, healthcare providers may
  deposit his/her eHRs into the patient's eHealth System account. The patient is also taken to have given sharing consent to the
  Department of Health, the Hospital Authority, the Primary Healthcare Commission, and healthcare facilities managed or controlled by
  the Government, the Hospital Authority, or a Hospital Authority subsidiary (see Footnote 5).

3 "Sharing consent" means that the patient agrees to let a particular healthcare provider access the eHR in the patient's eHealth account.
4 The "Participant Information Notice" sets out the details of the eHealth System, including the background of the eHealth System, what

  joining consent and sharing consent are and how to give them, the sharable scope and use of eHRs, registration and withdrawal
  procedures of the eHealth System, procedures for revocation of sharing consent, etc.
5 Managing sharing consent is not applicable to the Department of Health, the Hospital Authority, the Primary Healthcare Commission, or
  healthcare facilities managed or controlled by the Government, the Hospital Authority, or a Hospital Authority subsidiary (see Footnote 2).
4. Data security

    4.1. Healthcare providers shall adopt all practicable steps to protect the personal data in
           the eHealth System. For example:

                Ensure that when authorised sta log into the eHealth System, eHRs shown on the
                computer screen will not be seen by unrelated third parties (e.g. consider
                configuring screen orientation and/or using a privacy filter);

                Conduct risk assessment for devices if patients' eHRs in the eHealth System are
                accessed through notebook computers at non-registered locations for provision of
                healthcare services (e.g. consultation at patients' homes);

                Keep eHRs downloaded or printed from the eHealth System (in paper or electronic
                form) safely, and formulate guidelines on the use of portable storage devices6 to
                minimise the risk of personal data leakage;

                Adopt appropriate measures to ensure that healthcare providers' information
                systems are adequately safeguarded and properly functioning to avoid
                jeopardising patients' eHRs in the eHealth System.

    4.2. If there is a data breach of the eHealth System, healthcare providers should notify
           both the Commissioner for the Electronic Health Record and the Privacy
           Commissioner7 as soon as possible.

5. Direct marketing

    Regarding protection of the vast amount of personal data in the eHealth System, healthcare
    providers must note that using eHRs in the eHealth System for direct marketing is a criminal
    o ence under the eHealth Ordinance. Additionally, if healthcare providers intend to use the
    personal data in their local systems for direct marketing, they must comply with the
    requirements under Part 6A of the PDPO8; otherwise they will likewise be committing a
    criminal o ence.

6. Personal data privacy policy

    Healthcare providers should formulate personal data privacy policies and review the
    policies periodically in order to state their arrangements for the uploading of patients' data
    from their own local system to the eHealth System9. Any updates to the policies should be
    appropriately indicated to patients.

7. Data access requests or data correction requests

    7.1. As a healthcare provider is not entitled to provide a patient with an eHR uploaded to
           the eHealth System by any other healthcare provider, when a patient requests
           comprehensive access to his/her personal data in the eHealth System, healthcare
           providers should advise the patient to make a data access request to the
           Commissioner for the Electronic Health Record. Healthcare providers should reply to
           the patient in writing within 40 days as required under the PDPO10. Please note that
           the healthcare provider should ascertain the target and scope of the request. If a
           patient requests access to his/her personal data in an individual healthcare provider's

6 Please refer to the "Guidance on the Use of Portable Storage Devices" issued by the PCPD
  (https://www.pcpd.org.hk//english/resources_centre/publications/files/portable_storage_e.pdf).

7 Please refer to the "Guidance on Data Breach Handling and Data Breach Notifications" issued by the PCPD
  (https://www.pcpd.org.hk/english/resources_centre/publications/files/guidance_note_dbn_e.pdf).

8 Please refer to the "Guidance on Direct Marketing" issued by the PCPD
  (https://www.pcpd.org.hk/english/publications/files/GN_DM_e.pdf).

9 Please refer to the "Guidance on Preparing Personal Information Collection Statement and Privacy Policy Statement" issued by the
  PCPD (https://www.pcpd.org.hk//english/resources_centre/publications/files/GN_picspps_e.pdf).

10 Please refer to the Guidance Note on "Proper Handling of Data Access Request and Charging of Data Access Request Fee by Data
  Users" issued by the PCPD (https://www.pcpd.org.hk//english/resources_centre/publications/files/dar2020_e.pdf).
           local system, the healthcare provider should comply with his/her request in
           accordance with the requirements of the PDPO11.

    7.2. When a patient's request for correcting his/her personal data is received, the
           healthcare provider should, subject to the actual circumstances, comply with or refuse
           the request in accordance with the requirements of the PDPO12.

    7.3. Healthcare providers should designate sta to handle data access or data correction
           requests, and provide proper training and guidelines to sta on the requirements of
           the PDPO.

8. Complaints

    8.1. It is within the jurisdiction of the O ce of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data
           ("PCPD") to handle complaints relating to personal data in the eHealth System and
           possible contravention of the PDPO. Upon receipt of such complaints (irrespective of
           whether they are lodged with the PCPD directly or referred by the Commissioner for
           the Electronic Health Record), the PCPD will follow them up according to its
           Complaint Handling Policy.

    8.2. To safeguard patients' health records in the eHealth System, the eHealth Ordinance
           has established o ences relating to accessing, damaging, or modifying data in the
           eHealth System. As patients' health records in the eHealth System are personal data,
           a healthcare provider who commits the above o ences may also contravene the Data
           Protection Principles and/or provisions of the PDPO. When such a complaint is
           received by the Privacy Commissioner and/or the Commissioner for the Electronic
           Health Record, who opines that an o ence may have been committed under either or
           both Ordinances, the complaint will be referred to the Police for criminal investigation.

Action List for Healthcare Providers when Joining the eHealth
System for Protection of Personal Data Privacy

As a good practice, healthcare providers should review whether adequate measures have been
adopted to safeguard personal data privacy when joining the eHealth System, including the
following:

   Formulate/amend Personal Information Collection Statement

   Formulate/amend Personal Data Privacy Policy

   Set up and test basic facilities (including hardware and software), and conduct risk
   assessment for devices

   Provide training to sta on the operation and operating procedure of the eHealth System,
   and formulate relevant codes or guidelines

   Formulate policy on the handling of data access requests and data correction requests

   Develop procedures for handling complaints related to the eHealth
   System and the mechanism for notifying the Commissioner for the
   Electronic Health Record

   Set up a mechanism for the handling and notification of data breaches
   of the eHealth System

11 See Footnote 10.
12 Please refer to the "Guidance on the Proper Handling of Data Correction Request by Data Users" issued by the PCPD

   (https://www.pcpd.org.hk//english/resources_centre/publications/files/dcr_e.pdf).
Tel  : 2827 2827

Fax  : 2877 7026                                              PCPD Website
                                                               pcpd.org.hk
Address : Unit 1303, 13/F, Dah Sing Financial Centre,
                  248 Queen's Road East, Wanchai, Hong Kong  Download this
                                                               Publication
Email : communications@pcpd.org.hk

                                       This publication is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) licence. In essence, you are free to share
                                       and adapt this publication, as long as you attribute the work to the Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data, Hong Kong.
                                       For details, please visit creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0.

Disclaimer

The information and suggestions provided in this publication are for general reference only. They do not serve as an exhaustive guide to the application of the law and
do not constitute legal or other professional advice. The Privacy Commissioner makes no express or implied warranties of accuracy or fitness for a particular purpose
or use with respect to the information and suggestions set out in this publication. The information and suggestions provided will not affect the functions and powers
conferred upon the Privacy Commissioner under the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance.

March 2026 (First Revision)
